---
title: 50/50 raffle to support the school
author: PFA
meta:
  image: /i/pfa/5050-preview.png
  description: Contact our parent council at Ayton Primary School
menu:
  pfa:
    name: 50/50 Draw
    weight: 30
---

{{<aside side="left">}}
 ### August’s winner
 # 18

 [Previous winners](#winners)
{{</aside>}}

# Ayton Primary School PFA 50/50 Raffle

Open to all, a 50/50 Raffle is a way of raising money for our school while giving out monthly cash prizes. 50% of money taken goes to the PFA, 50% is given to a winning number picked at random.

## How it works

{{<aside side="right">}}
### Example

50 people enter the raffle for the year  
12 monthly prizes of £25  
£300 goes to the PF
{{</aside>}}

* It costs £1 per entry to join the monthly
raffle. You will be given a number.
* Your number is added to the monthly draw
held on the first day of every month
* Winners are drawn at random using a number
generator, and the participants will be notified of the winning number. The PFA will contact the winner using the contact details they provided.

## Who can take part?

* Anyone over the age of 16 with a connection to the school (parents, family, staff, volunteers, former pupils, community members).
* You can sign up at any time to be included in the following month’s draw.

## How do I take part?

{{<aside side="right">}}
### Bank details

Parents and Friends of Ayton School  
Sort code: 80-22-60  
Bank: Bank of Scotland  
Account number: 20022362
{{</aside>}}

* Make your payment:
* £12 bank transfer or cash for the year (preferable)
* £1 standing order or cash paid monthly
* Cash can be handed in at school or given to a PFA office bearer. Make sure your payment (bank transfer or envelope) clearly has your name. Email 5050@aytonprimary.com with your contact details.
* You will receive confirmation from the PFA that your name has been added, and they will give you your allocated number(s).
* There is no limit to the amount of entries per person

## Winners

* **18** (August 2024)
* **44** (July 2024)
* **18** (June 2024)
* **19** (May 2024)
* **15** (April 2024)
* **27** (March 2024)
* **16** (February 2024)
* **17** (January 2024)
* **6** (December 2023)
* **10** (November 2023)
* **18** (October 2023)
* **31** (September 2023)
* **7** (August 2023)
* **23** (July 2023)
* **1** (June 2023)
* **38** (May 2023)
* **14** (April 2023)
* **29** (March 2023)
* **4** (February 2023)
* **22** (January 2023)
* **8** (December 2022)
* **9** (November 2022)
