---
title: Minutes from PFA meeting held 08 November 2023
meta:
  image: /i/pfa/logo.png
  description: Parents & Friends Associations (PFAs) are constituted bodies, which support the school and the broader community. They are independent from the school and the local authority.
type: pfa-minutes
date: 2023-11-08
---

## Attendance

**Present:** Tracey Dick (Vice Chair) (TD), Amy Meek (Chair) (AM), Jill Horsburgh (Headteacher) (JH), Lisa Norris (LN), Ellie Moriarty (Treasurer) (EM), Toby Foster (TF), Rachel Davidson (school ANA/parent) (RD), Louise Buglass (Secretary) (LB), Danielle McLeod (P6/7 Teacher/parent)

**Apologies:** Phil Stephens (PS), Katie Aitchison (KA), Jo Roberts (JR), Joanna Waddell (JW), Mandi Wright (MW), Laura Cooksey (LC)

## Minutes from last meeting

Approved by LB, Seconded by AM

## Matters arising from last meeting

A huge thanks to those who organised the Halloween party, it was a great
success, and well received. Thanks to Paul for his excellent disco. Going
forward PFA would be happy to pay for snacks and drinks etc., as this is not
intended to be a fundraising event. Next year, JH stated that she would prefer
a Thursday evening rather than a Friday, for opening and locking up purposes.
Ayton hopes to have a newly elected Community Council soon.

## Fundraising updates

Rachel, Lianne and Ellie have formed a group and are currently looking at how
SBC can help with funding. Jo’s workplace has donated £500 towards playground
equipment. The Co-op application hasn’t been successful. £500 from Jack
(Borders Competitions) purely for playground use. A ‘visualiser’ to monitor
fundraising efforts for the trim trail has been suggested (MW). PFA agreed to
fund the whole school going to the Maltings to see this year’s Christmas panto
as a Christmas treat. JH has school funds to pay for the bus/transport.

## Treasurer’s update (EM)

### Income

* 50/50 draw £254
* Cards £499.41 (£69.53 for the school)
* CMS £500 (for the playground)
* Halloween party £63.31

### Outgoing

* Halloween party £36.57
* October 50/50 £20
* November 50/50 £19
* Cards £6.99

### Awaiting

Border Competitions £500 (for playground)

### Current balance

£1799.55 & £286.16 = £2085.71

### Head Teacher update (JH)

**Awaiting notes from JH**

## AOB

Those present raised questions re; school lunches.

There will be a ‘showcase’ drop in at Eyemouth High School on 7th dec at 4.30 to 7pm. JH asserted that this is an excellent opportunity for P7 pupils/parents to visit the school pre transition to S1.


## Next meeting

The date of the next PFA meeting is Tuesday 6th February at 6:30pm.
