---
title: Minutes from PFA meeting held 25 November 2024
meta:
  image: /i/pfa/logo.png
  description: Parents & Friends Associations (PFAs) are constituted bodies, which support the school and the broader community. They are independent from the school and the local authority.
type: pfa-minutes
draft: false
date: 2024-11-25
---



## Attendance

**Present:** L Cooksey (LC), L Norris (LN), L Drummond (LD), T Foster [Treasurer] (TF), Louise Birkett [Secretary] (LB), Joanna Stewart [Chair] (JS), Jill Horsburgh [Headteacher] (JH), D McLeod (DM)

**Apologies:** L Buglass (LBl), A Meek (AM), P Stephens (PS), M Wright (MW), K Aitchison (KA), A Patterson (AP), R Davidson (RD), J Easingwood (JE), P Lannigan (PL)

## Outstanding actions

* Organise raffle - to be discussed in this meeting (JS)

## Discussion points

### School photos

Disappointment about the photos - lack of choice in the photo and outdated
packages. Feedback from other parents from Ayton and Reston - asking if it’s possible to feed
back that the packages do not work for all parents (LD).

* School to look into possible alternative photographers or specify the photographer from last year (JH)

### Book Fair

A bit of pressure to buy when at parents evening - can be costly with multiple children. (LD)

* Possibility of a second hand book sale along side the book fair or alternative date (LB)
* Ask wider PFA community thoughts on book fair (JH)

### Christmas Fundraising and raffle

* Raffle - Some donations already received. (JS)
* Appeal for raffle prizes to be in for Fri 6th Dec. (JH)
* Helpers needed to sell raffle tickets at Christmas performances. Ticket sales go towards transport costs for 2025 (JS)
* Raffle drawn at Friday Breakfast Club as last year - Students to take home prizes (JH)

### Breakfast Club Update

* Breakfast club in need of more helpers, some days only staff in to run it. Ideally 2 helpers each morning. (LB)
* Circulate poster in PFA groups/Xpressions (LB)
* Consider asking in the wider Ayton community (JS)
* Ask at Community Council meeting (TF)

### Fundraising Team Update

1. Installation date for trim-trail delayed until 9th December (JS)
2. Celebration launch will be organised in January - Invite sponsors and arrange a Plaque (JS)
3. Scottish Building Society Fund wants to do an article on the Trim Trail to be approved by JH when finished - Need to find a way to mention all funders as per funding grant stipulations (JS).
    * They would also like to do a video - Concerns around media permissions - ask if it could be taken by the school. (JS)
4. £1178 - From Drone Hill for playground marking and benches for the playground. (JS)
5. Raising transport funds and day out for Summer Holidays

### Treasurer’s Report

1. Total £12,210.53 in account - 12,203.22 Earmarked for trim trail = Total in account £7.31
2. Cash £330.89
3. Moving to NatWest to avoid monthly fees (TF)
4. Renew raffle licence - £40 per annum (TF)

### School Update

* School review - J Bewsey and 2 head teachers, 1 from curriculum team - Very good progress
being made in the 3 areas identified by HMIE in October 2023.
* Stem with Mrs MacLeod - Some funding for STEM - going towards renewable science
equipment e.g beakers, pipets etc. (DM)
* Mrs L Stobbart started as Pupil Support Assistant (JH)
* Ayton pupils chosen to design SBC convener Official Christmas card - winning design to be
chosen on the 13th Dec (JH)
* SPLASH coming in January to make pasta (JH)
* Greenpower Car - Goblin car coming in January combined with Reston pupils (JH)
* Generation Science - Provide science workshops to the school, touring from Feb to May - £180 per workshop - would need 2 or 3 workshops - Can the PFA fund this? - £360 (DM)
* Primary Science Development Office aware and may be able to take workshops on the same day to provide a STEM day (DM)

### AOB

* Sheds need to be moved before trim trail is installed (JH)
* Time capsule to be moved by pentagon before trim trail is installed (JS)
* Any advancement on geeng swimming lessons for the school? (JC)
* Not possible to get funding from SBC (JH)
* Needs to be funded - Approx £2000 (JH)
* Should the sponsored walk be made an annual event? (JS)
* Fundraiser for school trip or transport costs (JS)

### Date of next meeting

* Poll for dates of next meeting (TF)
* End of Feb - into March (JS)
