---
title: Minutes from PFA meeting held 06 February 2024
meta:
  image: /i/pfa/logo.png
  description: Parents & Friends Associations (PFAs) are constituted bodies, which support the school and the broader community. They are independent from the school and the local authority.
type: pfa-minutes
draft: false
date: 2024-02-06
---

## Attendance

**Present:** Amy Meek [Chair] (AM), Jill Horsburgh [Headteacher] (JH), Mandi Wright (MW), Laura Cooksey (LC), Toby Foster (TF), Danielle MacLeod [P6/7 Teacher/parent] (DM), Pauline Lanagan (PL)

**Apologies:** Ellie Moriarty [Treasurer] (EM), Tracey Dick [Co-Chair] (TD), Phil Stephens (PS), Katie Aitchison (KA), Jo Roberts (JR), Joanna Stewart (JS), Louise Buglass [Secretary] (LB), Rachel Davidson (RD), Andrea Thacker (AT)


## Matters arising from last meeting

None


## P7’s transition to S1/Residential trip alternative activities

Update from AM on first meeting about changes to P7 transition activities (second meeting not attended). General feedback from Ayton P7 parents is positive. JH: It will be a good transition, with a day at Foxlake, a day at Eyemouth fields and a day at the high school. This year's activities is not necessarily an indicator of what next year's will be. Thanks to generous grant from Simpsons Malt for transportation costs.


## Fundraising updates

£1344.10 currently banked for [trim trail](/pfa/trim-trail). Louise McAskill to transfer £82 raised from December book sales (Update: done). Potential money from church as yet unconfirmed. Update sent from JS: we will regroup after February break, continuing to look at fundraising events and sources, meeting with hall committee in March.

## Treasurer’s update

Update sent from EM:


**Opening balance 08/11/23: £2085.71**

|  | Income | Outgoing |
|--|--|--|
| Borders Competitions | £500.00 |  |
| Christmas raffle | £344.10 |  |
| Halloween party | £66.31 |  |
| Easy Fundraising | £17.25 |  |
| Pantomime |  | £630.00 |
| Christmas crackers |  | £20.94 |
| 50/50 Draw (4 mo) | £45.00 | £69.50 |
| **Total** | **£972.66** | **£720.44** |

**Closing balance 06/02/24: £2337.93**


### Playground fundraising

£1344.10, comprising:

* CMS: £500 (to spend by 10/10/24)
* Borders Competitions: £500
* Christmas raffle: £344.10


### Upcoming payments

* Raffle licence: £20

## Headteacher's update

* Dog poo is a major issue. A parent from Reston PS will be coming in to give an assembly on litter.
* Parents will receive logins for Showbie.
* Thanks to Sandy Watson and Dixie Scott for their Burns workshop.
* It would be great to be able to provide swimming lessons, like Reston and Coldingham have. We need to work out how to fund this. Happy Swimmers Initiative may be able to help.
* Transport to the cross-country day provided by Active Schools is only half funded by Active Schools. We are awaiting quotes.
* Drama lessons run by Borders Youth Theatre Trust have been excellent. Thanks to Mr Bissett & Ollie, and for funding from wind farm. The final show will be on 22 March.
* Writing scheme is going wonderfully and has been really valuable. Thanks to PL for huge amount of work on it.
* Please ensure kids are at school before school bell at 8:45am.
* After half term, pupils will be asked to wear regular uniform on PE days. P6–7 should arrive in PE kit for first lesson and bring uniform in bag, everybody else should wear uniform and bring PE kit in bag.

## AOB

* AM: There will be a 'Decorate an Easter egg' competition. PFA to buy eggs, we are aware of allergies.
* Office bearers are needed. EM has been treasurer for three years, so should step down. TD stepping down as Vice Chair

## Date of the next PFA meeting

**6–7pm, Wednesday 24 April 2024**
