---
title: Minutes from PFA meeting held 23 September 2025
meta:
  image: /i/pfa/logo.png
  description: Parents & Friends Associations (PFAs) are constituted bodies, which support the school and the broader community. They are independent from the school and the local authority.
type: pfa-minutes
draft: false
date: 2025-09-23
---

## Attendance

**Present:** Joanna Stewart [Chair] (JS), Toby Foster [Treasurer] (TF), Jill Horsburgh [Headteacher] (JH), Danielle McLeod [Principal teacher] (DM), Rachel Davidson (RD), Laura Cooksey (LC), Katie Aitchison (KA), Andrea Thacker (AT)

**Apologies:** Louise Birkett [Secretary] (LB), Jo Easingwood, Pauline Lannagan (PL), Ellie Moriarty

## Discussion points

_The minutes of the previous meeting were approved._

### Eyemouth School Proposal

_([Background for reference](https://www.midlothianview.com/news/15m-borders-schools-shake-up-revealed))_

JH: Not spoken with Eyemouth PS yet, so can’t say much. Has had one meeting with architects. There will be 2 public consultations, one starting 12 November. 1 meeting with architects. Ayton PS has a ‘healthy’ school roll, and has not been mentioned at all in plans.

### Breakfast Club Update

JH: Breakfast Club starting at 8am was unsustainable. RD was coming in much earlier than paid to, and short on helpers. Almost half the school were attending, now around 20. Please be mindful of when you need to use the club.

LC and AT: arriving from 8:15 has made mornings significantly harder. JH: always staff in from 8am, please contact school if you can’t make timings work.

The school will be sending out a survey about the breakfast club.

_Thanks extended to all who work and volunteer at the breakfast club._

### Fundraising Team Update

JS: Trim trail funders have requested feedback from kids and teachers, and a ‘case study’ has been requested. DM has surveyed her class. PL & Mrs Pearson have been asking their classes for feedback. JH: other heads have been asking about trim tail, great to see the equipment and picnic tables used by kids and parents.

Andrew Lannagan has been too busy to quote for sorting out area by trim trail. JS will ask joiners for quotes on building composite non-slip decking.

JS has been applying for grants for a £20,000 package of outdoor equipment:

- Drone Hill: have approved £1,100 (not paid)
- SBC Neighbourhood Fund
- Quixwood

JS to apply to recently-reopened Newcastle Building Society fund. Hoping to have project completed by end of academic year.

TF suggested extending an invitation to all staff to submit to a wishlist, for how unallocated PFA funds could be spent. TF to write message to staff.

DM: Letters asking local businesses and orgs for Christmas raffle prizes have been written by the children today, will organise distribution with JS. JS to organise raffle tickets once prizes are sorted. JH: could be tied in with soon-to-be-announced P1–7 Christmas show.

Money raised at Ayton Flower Show from book sale, thanks to KA and JS for organising and running.

KA asked if Generation Science would be coming again this year, and if funding would be needed. DM: there will be a new P5–7 show about robotics on 25 Feb, funding already in place. JH: school will organise something else (maybe a trip) for P1–4 as same show as last year.

### Treasurer’s Report

Main expense since last meeting has been £52.80 for the P7 gift. Income since last meeting:

£188.60 raised from stall at Ayton Show  
£278.93 raised from bake sale at Sports Day  
£1146 raised from sponsored walk (JS: would be good to make annual)  
£20 misc donation

Current balances:

- BoS: £43.69
- NatWest: £8273
- Cash: £60.42

£5987.23 left to be spent on playground/outdoor equipment.  
£1146 allocated for transport (to include £153.60 for rugby festival).

Bank of Scotland account request form has been completed and sent, should be closed by next meeting.

### School Update

_Summary to be sent by JH_

### AOB

Children are excited for Halloween party on Thursday 30th in the hall. LB organising, there have been several offers to help and to buy supplies. There will be two sessions for younger and older age groups.

## Date of next meeting (AGM)

28 October 2025, 6:30pm at school.

---

_Minutes written by TF_
