---
title: Minutes from PFA meeting held 2 June 2025
meta:
  image: /i/pfa/logo.png
  description: Parents & Friends Associations (PFAs) are constituted bodies, which support the school and the broader community. They are independent from the school and the local authority.
type: pfa-minutes
draft: false
date: 2025-06-02
---

_The minutes of the last meeting were approved. Proposed by JS, seconded by TF._

## Attendance

**Present:** Joanna Stewart [Chair] (JS), Louise Birkett [Secretary] (LB), Toby Foster [Treasurer] (TF), Jill Horsburgh [Headteacher] (JH), Mandi Wright (MW), Danielle McLeod (DM), Rachel Davidson (RD), Lianne Drummond (LD), Laura Cooksey (LC), Katie Aitchison (KA)

**Apologies:** Jo Easingwood, Ellie Moriarty

## Discussion points

### Scholastic Book Club

£5.32 earned. Noted that in-person events previously raised significantly more, TF asked if it was worth it. DM said leaflets come into school and go out with each student - no hassle for the school.

### Residential trip

TF expressed concerns about pupils not being allowed to drink water on the coach. While this is standard practice, an exception was made for the residential trip. A complaint has been submitted to the bus company regarding the lack of air conditioning. TF suggests it’s standard practice that water is allowed on any coach trip. JH agreed.

### Communication concerns

TF noted that information is sometimes shared on Facebook before being communicated via email or not emailed at all. JH stated some information comes in very last minute and a full email list may not be possible - so it gets shared to the Facebook group.

## Breakfast Club

- Volunteer appeal:
  - JS: More volunteers needed, particularly on Mondays and Thursdays. Suggestion to widen the appeal to the broader community.
  - MW: Notice already outside the shop and it has been shared on the village Facebook page.
  - JH: P1 parents may be potential volunteers, but any community help must be consistent as the school covers PVG certification costs.
- Food waste discussion:
  - MW raised concerns about food waste.
  - DM suggested offering one main item (e.g. toast or cereal) and possibly a supplementary item to reduce waste. Breakfast club will trial this and see if it helps with food waste.

## Fundraising

- Sponsored Walk:
  - JS reported over £1,100 raised. The total and a thank-you message will be shared with the school community.
- Foundation Scotland Grant:
  - JS - £500 received; to contribute toward transport costs.
- Playground Improvements:
  - JS met with Andrew Lannigan and is awaiting three quotes for composite decking(with colour and non-slip coating) and fencing to replace the wood chip area next to trim trail.
  - Remaining trim trail funds may be used for playground markings - awaiting costs from Andrew Lannigan before JS can see how much is left.
  - Still awaiting funds from Drone Hill; JS to follow up on release for playground marking use.
- Sports Day:
  - Bake sale planned; volunteers needed for baking and running the stall.
- Future Funding:
  - JS/PFA is investigating other potential funding sources.

## Christmas raffle

- JH suggested a larger raffle this year.
- DM proposed older pupils write letters to businesses to request raffle prizes, tying in with enterprise education.
- JS to compile a list of businesses to approach.

## Treasurer’s Report

- Sponsored Walk Proceeds: £1,126 total
  - £556 received
  - £10 in cash pending
  - £560 raised via JustGiving
- Bank Accounts:
  - NatWest account is now open.
  - Bank of Scotland (BoS) account remains open pending Drone Hill funds.
- Balances:
  - BoS: £569.32
  - NatWest: £5,000
  - Earmarked for playground improvements: £5,987.23

## Headteacher’s Update

- Upcoming events:
  - 10th June - Open Afternoon (P1–P2)
  - 13th June - Open Assembly (P3–P4)
  - 19th June - Sports Day
  - 23rd June - Leavers Assembly
- Lost Property:
  - Significant volume of unnamed clothing.
  - Table to be set up at the end of the day for collection.
  - LD: Mentioned Berwickshire Uniform Swap at Reston (Saturday 7th June).
- Transition:
  - Move-up session scheduled for Wednesday 11th June.

## AOB

- PFA Information:
  - Will be included at the P1 Information Evening.
- Composite Classes:
  - Concerns raised regarding P3–P6 composition.
  - JH explained the school would need over 75 pupils for a 4th teacher. Current roll doesn’t allow splitting into four classes.
  - Classroom assistants will be allocated to all classes next year.
  - A rolling curriculum ensures consistent topic coverage across the school.
  - Social opportunities will be maximised for all year groups, with P6s not missing out on trips and P5s, although a small group, still included in opportunities.
  - KA noted that previous P1–P4 composite had two teachers, but this was due to a higher roll (approx. 80).
  - JH encouraged parents to get in touch with any concerns.

## Date of next meeting

Provisional Date: Mid-September (exact date to be confirmed).
