---
title: Minutes from PFA meeting held 10 March 2025
meta:
  image: /i/pfa/logo.png
  description: Parents & Friends Associations (PFAs) are constituted bodies, which support the school and the broader community. They are independent from the school and the local authority.
type: pfa-minutes
draft: false
date: 2025-03-10
---


## Attendance

**Present:** Joanna Stewart [Chair] (JS), T Foster [Treasurer] (TF), Jill Horsburgh [Headteacher] (JH), Rachel Davidson (RD), Lianne Drummond (LD), Jo Easingwood (JE), Pauline Lannagan (PL), Danielle McLeod (DM), Carly Thom (CT), Mandi Wright (MW)

**Apologies:** Louise Birkett [Secretary] (LB), Katie Aitchison, Louise Buglass, Laura Cooksey, Amy Meek, Ellie Moriarty, Phil Stephens, Andrea Thacker

*The minutes of the last meeting were approved. Proposed by JS, seconded by TF.*

## Discussion points

### School improvement plan

TF enquired about status of school improvement plan. Only one circulated since joining school is 23/24 one, but it's a yearly document and PFA should be involved, although hasn't in the past. DM said a lot is centralised to SBC. Next year's will be written starting April/May. PFA will be included.

### Online meetings

To make meetings more accessible, TF suggested holding next meeting online. DM suggested a hybrid meeting. Broad agreement to make online an option for next meeting, at 8pm. Printed minutes of this meeting should be circulated, with call for parents to attend next meeting.


### Railings by front door

LB raised rusting, loose railing by the steps to the entrance. LD said school aware but not deemed dangerous. Centralised buildings department would be called out when necessary.

### Outdoor PE

JE asked if PE would be held outdoors soon. JH said rugby and athletics will be held outside in the spring. Children have been doing volleyball and creative dancing (in preparation for dance festival) inside this term.

## Breakfast Club Update

Breakfast Club has been very busy, close to half the school. JH urged parents to book in advance, so they can be prepared. Volunteers still needed (also volunteers for paired reading). TF to ask again for village Facebook to post call for volunteers, and add poster to Community Council noticeboard.

The club runs at a loss, but school does not want to increase the cost to parents. Food donations are useful, as long as they follow nutritional guidelines. PFA to be given guidelines by school, and promote request for donations. School spends around £35/week, LD looking into potential funds.

## Fundraising Team Update

JW: No launch event organised yet, waiting for warmer weather. Plaque will also also be organised. Agreed on 2pm during school day towards then end of May. Need to spend funds before the end of September.

School would like to replace bark area (cat litter problem) to make space for quiet area with benches. PL to look into options for quotes. Student council have requested more grass areas (LD), but the bark area is the wrong place for it as high traffic and would be too muddy (DM). More loose parts play equipment also requested.

JW to do impact report, might need to publish survey. JW to check on Drone Hill funding (not been paid yet).

JW: Can we settle on date for sponsored walk? Monday 26 May (TBC).

JW: Need cost estimate and dates for next 12 months of school trips, so she can apply to funds for transport. JH to send.

Agreed to defer previously discussed day out to next academic year, already a lot planned and no money currently raised.

DM: Been on recent residential as part of her 3 year STEM course, this was about computing science. School doesn't have enough equipment currently, but she would like to purchase [Vex 123](https://www.vexrobotics.com/123) school kit to share with Reston. Suitable for all primary ages, from using buttons up to a Scratch-like language on the iPads. DM has £450 from Adina Trust to put towards it, around £370 more needed (to be split equally between the two schools’ parent councils). PFA agreed to pay Ayton’s share.

## Treasurer’s Report

Bank of Scotland: £5941.98  
Cash: £658.89

Taking months for NatWest to review bank application, TF has spoken to them and they will respond by end of 11 March. Bank of Scotland now charging around £5/month.

Recent payments for outdoor suits, transport to cross-country event, lottery licence.

Not including Drone Hill fund, amount earmarked for playground is £6092.22. People still transferring money for 5050, despite it ending in October. Around £100 to be potentially returned. Leaves around £400.


## Headteacher’s Update

JH: Recently had World Book Day, events ran by Miss Thom and Mrs Nottingham. P6 enjoyed green powered car STEM at Eyemouth, hoping it will happen again for next year's P6. Mrs Pearson applied for grant for trees, wild meadow seed in 2 planters, year round shrubs, bird feeders, strawberry plants. Need adult volunteers to help turn over so potatoes can be planted. LD: Get parents after school to do it.

* P6 Euroquiz 12 March
* P7 rotary quiz at Eyemouth PS (transport costs already covered)
* P6/7 open assembly
* Reports will be issued on 28 March
* Parents consultations will be held week beginning 19 May, parents will be able to [book online](https://parents-booking.co.uk/aytonps).
* P7 Eyemouth HS visit this month. Transition days on 10/11 June.
* P1-4 dance festival on 25 March
* P1-4 Generation Science 31 March (PM), P5–7 in May
* P6 green power STEM have been offered free trip to Jim Clark museum on 2 April (TBC)
* P5 open assembly 4 April 9AM
* 12 from P5-7 are to go on science trip with DM to Kelso 29 April as part of Inspire Learning. Places will be allocated randomly. A shame not all can attend, but too good an opportunity to give up. There will be an open afternoon showcase, so all students will be involved (date TBC)
* P7 residential 7–9 May
* P5 countryside day 20 may (transport costs already covered)
* P6 Priory Live 10 June

JH: Would PFA like to fund P7 legacy books, as in previous years? Unanimously agreed.

## AOB

—

## Date of next meeting

Next meeting will be held in May, avoiding week beginning 19 May (parents consultations). Ask parent forum for best date. 8pm online or hybrid.
