---
title: Minutes from PFA meeting held 18 November 2025
meta:
  image: /i/pfa/logo.png
  description: Parents & Friends Associations (PFAs) are constituted bodies, which support the school and the broader community. They are independent from the school and the local authority.
type: pfa-minutes
draft: false
date: 2025-11-18
---

## Attendance

**Present:** Jill Horsburgh (Head Teacher), Joanna Stewart (Chair), Laura
Cooksey (Vice Chair), Toby Foster (Treasurer), Katie Aitchison (Secretary),
Andrea Thacker, Rachel Davidson, Ruth von Krause, Pauline Lannagan
(Teacher), Lianne Drummond

**Apologies:** Danielle McLeod (Principal Teacher)

## Discussion points

Previous minutes approved by TF, JS, LC

### Eyemouth Primary School consultation

JS discussed her recent letter to SBC outlining her concerns about the
legality of the consultation process. She explained that she is aware of the
failings of the consultation process due to her job. She highlighted a previous
case where SBC lost a case against them for similar failings. She did not
want that to happen in this case and challenged SBC to encourage a properly
executed consultation process which provides consultees with the level of
detail needed to make an evidence based decision. She confirmed she has
had a response and they are reviewing the information. She reminded us of
the importance of individually responding to the consultation.

TF suggested that the PFA has a responsibility to gather Ayton parents
opinions and respond to the consultation as this may encourage responses
from individuals who may not otherwise respond. It was agreed to gather
opinions via an online survey based on the one developed for Eyemouth high
school.

- TF to compile survey which will be sent with a letter by school email

### Breakfast club

RD confirmed that although the numbers of children are more manageable
we are short again on breakfast club volunteers. Thank you Louise for helping
up to now. We discussed how we can recruit more helpers, JH confirmed the
school is happy to pay for PVG checks.

- JH to follow lead with community council re employability team and ask in
  next newsletter for volunteers. The school also plan for children to create a
  poster to be distributed to village shop, notice board and drop in.

### Christmas Raffle

Lots of exciting raffle prizes have been donated and we are now ready to print
raffle tickets. Will ask parents for any additional prizes. Tickets will be £1 and
available at the office and school shows.

- JS to order tickets
- JH to add to December newsletter
- KA to message Parents forum with how to buy tickets and how to donate
  raffle prizes

### Sharing documents/diary

We spoke about the need previously to have an online space to share
information on PFA events, TF confirmed we now have access through the
National Parents Forum of Scotland to a google sharing platform with gmail
accounts and google docs. This will have one PFA login and be a place to
store receipts, historic minutes, information about the website etc.

### Treasurer’s update

- Cash: £60.42
- NatWest: £8,138.09
- Bank of Scotland: Closed!

#### Restricted funds

- Playground: £5987.23 left to spend
- Transport: £992.40 left to spend

#### Income since 1 August 2025

- BoS complaint: £40
- Ayton Flower Show: £188.60
- EasyFundraising: £40.17
- Other donations: £22

#### Expenses since 1 August 2025

- Rugby bus: £153.60
- 50/50 repayments: £24
- Service charge: £8.50

TF mentioned the easyfundraising account and that we perhaps need to
readvertise this. It is an easy way to raise funds for the PFA when people
shop online. It was agreed to do this in the New Year.

### School update

JH described the shared work on literacy between the cluster schools; splash
are coming in to make soup again with the children; all the dates are now
fixed for Christmas, parties, lunches, church service and plays and will be
listed in the newsletter next week. The whole school is putting on three
performances of the school play, with practice underway now. P6 will start
their project on green powered cars with the Eyemouth rotary; Linda and
Darren Hall from the village shop are coming in to give out advent calendars
and decorations to decorate. We are grateful for their continued kindness and
support. JH mentioned that not many parents are accessing Showbie, can
PFA spread the word.

- KA to share codes and links with parents forum

### AOB

JH reminded us of the need to purchase a plaque for the trim trail

- JS looking into

PL asked can the PFA fund Christmas gifts again for the children and
decorations for the lunch. Can PFA assist in wrapping gifts?

- PL to liaise with TF with costings
- TF to purchase Christmas crackers
- LC and other to assist wrapping

Next meeting confirmed as Tuesday the 10th of February at 6.30pm in Ayton
Primary School
